If Else Elif Statements: 

Key Words:
- Flow Control Statements
- if Statements
	- Condition
	- Condition = Expression
	- pythontutor.com/visualize.html
	- Block
	- Block = Clauses
- Else Statements
- Elif Statements
- Truthy and Falsey Values
- bool() Function



1.
Flow Control Statements

	The simplest Flow Control Statements are IF and Else


2.
IF Statements
	
	The expression of an If Statement is called a Condition. Condition is just a name of an expression in a flow control Statement. Technically a Condition and Expression are the same thing.

	Condition = Expression 

	If the condition in an If Statement evaluates to True, the execution enters into the indented code that follows. If the condition is False, the execution skips the indented code. 

	2_if_example.py


3.
Blocks
	A block is made up of lines of code that are indented at the same level. The indentation is how python tells what part is inside the If statements block and what isn’t. A block begins when the indentation increases and ends when the indentation returns to it’s previous level. Blank lines are ignored for the sake of looking at what’s in and not in the block. 


	Blocks are also sometimes called Clauses.  Just like who condition is another name for expression. 
	New Blocks begin only after statements that end with a colon.

4.
Else Statements
	
	One and only one block can be executed. In an If / Else statement, one of two blocks will be executed.

	4_if_else_example.py

	If the condition is True, then the IF block is executed and the Else block is skipped. If the condition is False, the the IF block is skipped and the Else block is executed.   

5. 
Elif Statements 
	
	One of Many blocks can be executed. 

	5_elif_example.py

	You can have as many Elif statements follow an If statement as you need, but the order of the Elif statements does matter. The execution enters into the First block that has a True condition. The remaining conditions won’t even be checked. 

	You can also add an else statement to the end of the chain of elif statements.  The Else statement will execute if ALL of the elifs statement conditions return as False. 

6. 
Truthy and Falsey Values

	6_Truthy_Value_example.py

	Strings: 	Blank values = Falsey Value
			All other values = Truthy Value
	Integers: 	0 = Falsey
			All other integers = Truthy Value
	Float: 		0.0 is Falsey
			All other integers = Truthy Value
7.
bool() Function

	Like the Str() & Int() 

	bool(0) = False 
	bool(2) = True 
	bool('Hello') = True
	bool('') = False


RECAP:

x- An IF statement can be used to conditionally execute code, depending on whether or not the if statement’s condition is True or False. 

- An ELIF (that is, “else if”) statement can follow an if statement. Its’ block executes if its condition is True and all of the previous conditions have been False. 

- An Else statement comes at the end. It’s block is executed if all of the previous conditions have been Flase. 
	
- The Values 0, 0.0, and the empty string are considered to be Falsey values. When used in conditions they are considered False.  You can always see for yourself which values are Truthy or Falsey by passing them to the bool() function. 
